# static_page_generator

This is a static page generator.

An example of a website generated by it can be found at jduarte.xyz.

I initially only wanted to create a simple website. Most of the tools I work with are overkill for a static website and I didn't feel like hand writing and copying HTML code a bunch of times.

I could technically learn how to use one of the many available static website generating tools, but I felt like the concept itself seemed simple enough that I might aswell do it myself.

So here it is. By this point, I can't even remember exactly what I wanted to create a website for, but whatever it might be, this tool aims to help me do that.

[UPDATE AUGUST 2022]

By this point, this is less of a generic static page generator and more of static picture gallery website generator. It is what it is.

## Functionality

The generator currently has two generating behaviours: text pages and image galleries.

In order to have text sections, create a `pages` directory at the root directory (or change the `DEFAULT_PAGES_PATH` variable within `generator.py` to point to a different directory). Any markdown document placed inside will be converted to HTML and its name will be used as a section name. For example, if you have a file named `about.md` within your text pages directory, a section named `about` will be added to the website with the content of the document in it.

n order to have image gallery sections, create a `images\pictures` directory structure at the root directory. All pictures within it will be separated into sections by their keyword data.

Though a `DEFAULT_IMAGE_PATH` variable also exists, the pictures' directory is currently not changeable.

Running the docker container then sets up an nginx server with the pages you've just generated.

## Development

If you want to try this, I recommend setting up a virtual environment. For example:

```
$ python3 -m venv venv
$ source venv/bin/activate
$ pip install -r requirements.txt
```

And then running the `generator.py` script.

Eventually, I want this all to be done automatically when running the Docker container.

You can then run the container with:

```
$ docker-compose up --build
```

Et voilà!

You should be able to access your new ~~empire~~ website at localhost:80.
